{"Title": "So is this no longer aimed at realism at all, right? Or maybe never was?", "Post Text": "Player since probably around 2017, Kappa the last 5 wipes in a row, I'm not a noob.  I understand the game has never truly been about \"realism\" but none of the mechanics currently feel realistic at all at the current moment.  I can understand some for gameplay purposes, but I can't see any that function at all.  \n\nExamples:\n\nStamina is broken.  I'm closer to a mall cop then a PMC specialist.  In real life I can run with an 80lb ruck for 10 miles, in Tarkov I can jog for 40 seconds before I'm so gassed I need to stop.  If I sit down or lay down, getting up costs me 10% of my stamina, apparently because I'm actually 500lbs.\n\nRecoil is atrocious.  If weapons fired like they do in tarkov, we might see swords in modern warfare.  The kick, patterns and spread are all off.  Firing a 9mm pistol into a target 20 yards away should be all on target with minimal effort.  Rounds shot in tarkov do not seem to have any control.  You can control a SAW standing, unbraced through a hundred rounds spray better than you can control 70% of the weapons in Tarkov.  Any half competent monkey can land rounds on target at 30 yards fully automatic on any modern platform without expending any brain power.  Point, brace, fire.  Simple stupid, just the way grunts like it.  My main question is why is their any upwards kick whatsoever in a braced shot?  When you brace a shot into your shoulder, the gun moves almost exclusively left and right because the force of the rifle is moving into your body.  The force is propelled into you, and is no longer forced to the stock shifting it down, and the muzzle up because of your brace.  So why does the rifle kick up into the sight picture?  In semi automatic fire braced, why does the gun move at all?  at 30 yards fired semi automatic, you might see 1 - 2 inch separation on a poor marksman's shot, not 6 inches up, and 12 inches left or right.  It is terrible, uncomfortable to use, unrealistic, and unfun.\n\nThe current selection of viable guns has gone down, not up since the change to recoil.  It is why everyone ran the UMP for the first month, and then moved onto slow fire rate meta builds because anything that fires faster than a musket kicks like a mule.  A 9MM submachine gun should not have greater kick than a 7.62 chambered rifle, period, in any circumstance on any modern platform.  I am not sure if Nikita has ever fired a rifle before, and I am sure he has, but unless he has butter fingers and fires one handed there is no gun he has ever shot that handles like they do in tarkov. \n\nSemi-automatic fire is useless in any meta context.  It has horrendous kick (which is confusing) and time to kill is so egregiously exaggerated that putting 5 pen rounds on target is never as viable as putting 30 rounds down range with glee.  There is a reason \"full auto\" is typically never used in military  or police applications outside of suppressing fire, and even then unless you're on the SAW someone is going to chew you out for wasting Uncle Sam's rounds.\n\nThe only thing they likely got right is the food and water consumption.  Since I'm walking around as a 500lb out of shape PMC with body dysphoria so I see myself as fit, I probably do need to consume soda and croutons every 10 minutes.\n\nThere are no spikes of adrenline whatsoever when taking contact.  You are a trained PMC, you are combat ready, yet after your 40 second run that blew out your legs you have no capacity to sprint for cover when a round comes towards you.  If you have ever heard a close round, no matter if you were running for 2 days straight, you are generating the necessary energy to move 15 feet to cover at a full sprint.  Hell, broken ankles, bullet wounds and two pints of blood down you're going to at least jog to cover.  In Tarkov, you do this weird slow motion dance, take the rounds, and feel stupid.\n\nThe inertia system is over tuned and sloppy.  Having heavy gear is frustrating, but 30kg of gear is neither heavy nor debilitating to maneuver in.  At a jog, the time to stop and come to ready is near instantaneous.  In tarkov, you may as well have your gun in your backpack disassembled for how long it takes you to shoulder your rifle.  Jumping over objects is atrocious, and in general the movement mechanics in Tarkov are neither realistic, fun or tactical.  They are amateur at best.  The animations are sloppy, unresponsive, and lack any relation to realistic mechanics.  \n\nThis game has always been a looter shooter, but it was sold on the aspect of \"realism\".  That you were operatives, moving through a warzone, surviving.  What Tarkov currently is, is some 500 lb mall cop who needs to eat every 10 minutes, that struggles to stand up, and cannot climb simple obstructions.  He would move faster and further in a wheelchair, and feels no threat or response to taking contact willing to stand still and expire rather than rush for cover.  Combat in Tarkov has never felt worst, and has never felt more unrealistic.  My only question is why?  \n\nI left out a rant on audio because that's just terrible design.  Everyone knows its bad, Nikita knows its bad, yet it is what it is.  I'm not sure how ingrained the coding is for it and how poorly it was written but my suspicion as it was done very early in development is that they're so fucked on audio that there will never be any meaningful fix but for the sake of it, your PMC is also both 90% deaf and can hear further than Superman so take that for what you will.\n\n&#x200B;\n\nWhat do you all think?  Does anyone here have experience with weapons that can give an explanation for why they handle the way they do?  Does anyone consider this game \"realistic\" in any aspect, and if so which ones?  What areas did I get completely wrong?", "ID": "10kqf9i", "Score": 1085, "Total Comments": 498, "Post URL": "https://www.reddit.com/r/EscapefromTarkov/comments/10kqf9i/so_is_this_no_longer_aimed_at_realism_at_all/"}